# Project Proposal
## Overall Idea
I wish to create a [pac-man game](http://www.freepacman.org/) in openframeworks as my final project for cs126 with some added functionality.
## Description Of The Game
I aim to create a simplified pac-man game. I wish to have a start screen, a top scores board, have sprites, add sounds when pacman moves. I also aim to add some algorithms for the ghosts, giving each one a distungished "personality" if I have time, otherwise I'll implement a random movement algorithm for the ghosts. I will use sprites and animations of the pac-man and the ghosts that are available online. I'll also have to work with collusion. I'll have to do a lot of thinking on implementing the sounds as well, pac-man movement sound will only play when pac-man is moving for example. I'll also have to implement a pause screen for the game. The graphics aspect of the project will be challenging and will probably be the thing that'll take a majority of my time. The game will also include various levels with  increasing difficulty.
## Stretch Goal
My stretch goal is to implement a two player system as an extension of the project. Two players will have a set number of lives and will try to outlive the other while earning as many points as they can by eating food. If all the food on one level is eaten then the game will go to the next level, which will just have the npc ghosts move faster and maybe smarter. The game will have a set number of levels and if both players survive them, then the game ends and their scores are compared. I can save the score in a file for top scores but it's not mandatory. Players will enter their names for their top scores so that the score is stored with the name.
## Libraries I Will Use
I'll use [ofxGui](https://openframeworks.cc/documentation/ofxGui/) to create the graphics engine and I'll need to have sounds in the game so I'll use [sound](https://openframeworks.cc/documentation/sound/) libraries of openFrameWorks to make the game possible.
